---
slug: about
title: Jonathan Clem
description: >-
    Jonathan Clem is a Brooklyn, New York-based principal software engineer at GitHub.
---

Hello, I'm Jonathan. I live in Brooklyn, New York with my wonderful wife,
[Amanda](https://www.amandajbarlow.com "Website of Amanda Barlow"). I'm a
Principal Software Engineer at [GitHub](https://github.com/jclem "Jonathan Clem
GitHub Profile"). Currently, I'm working on parts of GitHub Copilot.
Previously, I've worked at GitHub on things like foundational UI work,
[Actions](https://github.com/features/actions "GitHub Actions feature home
page"), and [Projects](https://github.com/features/issues "GitHub Issues feature
home page").

Prior to GitHub, I worked on infrastructure for [Dropbox
Paper](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dropbox_Paper "Wikipedia article about
Dropbox Paper"), where I spent a surprising amount of time focused on web
performance in the browser. Prior to that, I co-founded a company called Canvas,
which was a collaborative editor for teams. At Canvas, I learned a great deal
about building and leading engineering teams, but I also developed a strong
interest in the technologies that power collaboration software, such as
operational transformation and conflict-free replicated data types.

Before founding Canvas, my first serious job in the technology industry was at
[Heroku](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Heroku "Wikpedia article about Heroku"),
where I was a member of the web apps team. In particular, I'm proud of having
lead the drive to rewrite the Heroku Dashboard Rails application into a nimbler,
faster, Node.js-backend Ember.js-frontend application.

I do not tend to write much, but you can see my posts in the [writing
archive](/writing).
